# Project-441
26 MW Bagasse based Co-generation by M/s Sahakar Maharshi Shivajirao Narayanrao Nagawade Sahakari Sakhar Karkhana Ltd. Dist. Ahmednagar, Maharashtra

First CoU Issuance Period as per PCN: 28/08/2019 to 31-12-2023 (04 Years 4 months 3day)

Crediting Period as per PCN: 28/08/2019 to 31-12-2023 (04 Years and 4 months 3day) 
____________________
REVISED 1ST Crediting and ISSUANCE Dates: 01/01/2021 to 31/12/2023 (inclusive of both dates)
______________
Scale of the project activity: Large Scale

Project Participants Project Proponent: M/s Sahakar Maharshi
Shivajirao Narayanrao Nagawade Sahakari
Sakhar Karkhana Ltd. A/P Shrigonda
Factory Tal. Shrigonda, Dist. Ahmednagar - 413726

Host Party India

Applied methodologies and standardized
baselines
CDMUNFCCC Methodology
ACM0006: Electricity and heat generation
from biomass(Ver.16) & UCR Standard for
Emission Factor

Sectoralscopes 01 Energy industries (Renewable/NonRenewable Sources)

MP-01 Crediting Date: 01/01/2021 to 31/12/2023 (inclusive of both dates)

The 01/01/2021 start date ensures that all credited emissions reductions or energy generation
activities are in full compliance with the relevant guidelines and accurately reflect the operational
reality of the project.

The change in the crediting date is due to:

 The non-compliance with UCR guidelines in 2019 due to the high percentage of fossil fuels in
the fuel mix. (Greater than 25%)

 The lack of operational activities in 2020 because of the sugar factory was closed.
The 01/01/2021 start date ensures that all credited emissions reductions or energy generation
activities are in full compliance with the relevant guidelines and accurately reflect the operational
reality of the project.

_______________
The Project Titled “26 MW Bagasse based Co-generation by “M/s Sahakar Maharshi
Shivajirao Narayanrao Nagawade Sahakari Sakhar Karkhana Ltd.” is a bagasse-based CoGeneration (co- gen) Power Project successfully commissioned by Maharashtra State
Electricity Transmission Company Limited (MSETCL) and operational since 28/08/2019.
The Project is owned by M/s Sahakar Maharshi Shivajirao Narayanrao Nagawade Sahakari
Sakhar Karkhana Ltd. (hereby to be called as Project Proponent, PP).
____________________
The PP has set up an integrated new sugar mill with sugar crushing capacity of 5000 TCD and
installs 26 MW commissioning on 28/08/2019 Bagasse based Cogeneration power plant. This
will remove the dependency of the sugar mill on the power supplied from the state grid.
Power generated from this project activity will be used for meeting plant requirement. After
fulfilling its captive energy requirement, remaining power will be sold to the state grid as per
the Power Purchase Agreement.
___________________
The Co-gen power project of 26 MW capacity will operate on bagasse only for 120 to140
days during season days. Actual number of mill operation days will be mentioned in the
monitoring period. At designed level, the project will generate clean energy and after meeting
the captive requirement export the surplus energy to Maharashtra State Electricity
Transmission Company Limited (MSEDCL). All the steam and power requirements of the
sugar mill and co-gen power plant will be met internally from the project itself.
________________
The purpose of the project activity is to generate electricity using renewable biomass (i.e.
Bagasse) and thereby reduce GHG emissions by displacing the fossil fuel dominated grid
based electricity with biomass based renewable electricity. The electricity produced by the
project is directly contributing to climate change mitigation by reducing the anthropogenic
emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs) into the atmosphere by displacing an equivalent
amount of fossil power at grid. Hence, project activity is displacing the estimated annual net
electricity generation i.e., 19,000 MWh/yr from the Indian grid system, which otherwise
would have been generated by the operation of fossil fuel-based grid-connected power
plants. The project activity doesn’t involve any GHG emission sources. The estimated annual
CO2e emission reductions by the project activity are expected to be 15,336 tCO2e/yr,
whereas actual emission reductions achieved during the first CoU period shall be submitted
as a part of first monitoring and verification.
The project activity employs 26 MW aggregated generator along with a boiler of 140 TPH
with high pressure and temperature configuration (87Kg/Cm², 515°C).
______________________
DO NO NET HARM CLARIFICATION

A case was filed in the National Green Tribunal (NGT) concerning an explosion at a sugar
factory. The incident involved the rupture of a molasses tank, leading to the release of
untreated sewage into the Ghod River. Following the accident, the factory management
promptly reported the incident to regulatory authorities, including the Maharashtra
Pollution Control Board (MPCB). On the same day, February 10, 2022, MPCB officials
visited the site and prepared an onsite observation report. The report link is provided below.
(https://greentribunal.gov.in/sites/default/files/news_updates/Joint%20Committee%20Repor
t%20in%20OA%20No.85-2022%20(page%20nos.91-124).pdf)

 Subsequently, following the NGT application no. 85/2022 (WZ) and caveat no. 12/2022, the
state pollution control board issued directives to the factory to prepare a damage assessment
report. In response, the factory management engaged Vasantdada Sugar Institute (VSI),
Pune, to conduct the damage assessment. VSI is an NABET-accredited Environment
Impact Assessment (EIA) consultant. The detail link of damage assessment report (DAR) is
given below,

(https://drive.google.com/file/d/14CmzuMY076EpseKBG2MwavHPliR3mGaS/view?usp=sh
aring)

Some highlights of remedies taken by project proponent are as follow, same also mentioned in
DAR.

 The factory management took immediate action to control and remove the molasses from
outside premises. In the control action, the management took following steps:

 Stopped the flow of molasses in the natural drainage (nalla) by constructing temporary
bunds.

 Deployed tankers to collect the molasses from the nalla

 Used vehicle mount diesel engine pumps to collect the molasses in tankers.

 Brought the tankers to the factory premises and stored the molasses from tankers into spent
wash storage constructed lagoons of distillery unit.

 Used scraping material such as bagasse to prevent spread of molasses in the surrounding
field.

 The management could able to control and restrict the flow of molasses within 800 m
(aerial distance) from the distillery premises.

 Prevented the spread molasses in the surrounding agriculture and/ or open land to maximum
extent.

 Closed the distillery operation till the action of molasses removal from natural environment
gets completed.

 Reply on behalf of respondent (Project proponent) in this case,
(https://greentribunal.gov.in/sites/default/files/news_updates/Reply%20by%20R1%20in%20OA%20No.85-2022%20(page%20nos.160-243).pdf)

 After reviewing all the damage assessment reports and responses from the respondents
(Project proponent), the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) granted consent
to operate to the project proponent. 
__________

ISSUANCE DATE: 21/01/2025

QTY: 60871 CoUs

MP DATE:2021-2023
______________
Serial Number: 0001-000001-010665-UCR-CoU-IN-441-01012021-31122021

Vintage Year: 2021

Quantity:10665
_____________
Serial Number: 0001-010666-038356-UCR-CoU-IN-441-01012022-31122022

Vintage Year: 2022

Quantity: 27691
_____________
Serial Number: 0001-038357-060871-UCR-CoU-IN-441-01012023-31122023

Vintage Year: 2023

Quantity: 22515
__________
